working with the stackpanel layout control  stackpanel布局
hi we are about www.learnvisualstudio.net. in this lesson we will talk about the
stackpanel layout control. which allows you to arrange and controls an aflow by default from top to buttom,but then we can also change orientation property to flow from left to right in a horizontal fashion. We give a change, the flow to go left to right from right to left, if we wanna change the property of the stackpanel.
And stackpanel is pretty simple, again, its just a panel, like a diftage if you also familiar with HTML development, and inside of it, whatever you put in, will be stacked on top of each other or side by side. so in this case, you can see that I have very simple application here called "SimpleStackPanel" you can load and follow along. notice that I use a little some + and - simbol here in the left most column to roll up my codes so we can see the overall structures of this application. and you might be wondering why do we have stackpanels inside stackpanels, why can not we just do something like this? well, you see that, look at the blue wavy line that I have over the second stackpanel we get the familiar exception that "The property content is more than once". So a page only have a content property it does not have a children property collection. So that's why we need and I am going to ctrlZ ctrlZ, that's why we need....   and out of most stackpanel, in the inside that we can put as many stackpanels and other controls we want place. So inside this first stackpanel, notice that I have three textblocks that are stacked on top of each other, notice that they take up the full width because we have not specified width. And by default, they are arranged in a vertical fashion . The item at the top will be first item stacked. the item at the buttom will be last item stacked. ok , so its done in order .furthermore underneath that third textblock we have a second stackpanel we've set its orientation Horizantal so its gonna represent against you call it another row that stacked beneath. and then inside of that, we are stacking things in a horizontal fashion. So the leftmosts stacked item is a textblock that has the word "forth" in it and the next item that stacked next to it is a textbox and the next item is the button with the content "six". you can see the effect we get there. So we can almost achieve anything that we want to using the stackpanel wisely. and as i say in the very end of this lesson, I tender to use the stackpanel actully more than I use the grid. I think it allows me to get the desgin I want. and it gives me the flow i want. regardless of the size that I've actully running on. you can also see that I got a stackpanel to find beneath it with a single rectangle. The only thing I want to illustrate is that we can set the height of the rectangle. and in the items inside the stackpanel can have their own height indepandent of the parent. if we oddly move this height, notice what happens. esstentially the height of the stackpanel is said to auto. but we are trying to sent it to star and work but we can set it numerical pixcel. or we can just leave it default which is auto. we go and have ctrlZ on that and then save this and let's open up a more intersting exsample that i have created call "complexstackpanle", as you can see that I jave changed from that default viewer that would be 5 inch phone to a tablet. just to accommodate the larger width of this desgin i created and notice also , take you a moments here just you can line up what you see,and here with the code, we have stackpanels inside stackpanels inside stackpanels that you can get confusing. However, hopefully between the color descriptions holding your mouse and seeing that little boundarised boxes, you may kind of hestail how it works.
it have most stackpanel, to find you call a low and then also the height of this stackpanel on the top of the most stackpanels is dictated by the item inside it. Specifically this rectangle with the fill of bisque, its height is set to 200. so that says tha height for the entire stackpanel since nothing else inside it have a larger height. also you notice that i set the vertical alignment top. the reason i did that is that if you change that. it will now get move to the middle of this grid cell. and that is the difference of how grid works and stackpanel works. we will see an iusse of this at the very end of this lesson.so let me just go ahead and hit ctrlZ and that will the stackpanel to the top. alright, since we are stacking horizontal here, horizontally i've added the stackpanel that will be position right of biscolor rectangle. it will arrange color in a vertical fashion, so inside of that stackpanel you can see that i created 2 other stackpanels that orientated horizontally. so the interst can see continuely until i see the series of the rectangles that resemble something like francle Royde right. diagram that something he would be proud of. 
	
	now as we continue to the series, i'll use multiple stackpanels to orignize varies sample controls and sample elements on screen. and i acully grown to the point where i perfer  the flexibilty of the stackpanle to the range natural of the grid. i guess that is just a personal perference, but i find that usually get what i am after using stackpanels in margins. now one of the things that can help you out whenerver you are working through intercase, amont of exams is difficult to find where you are around is there are document outline, if you do not see it, by default, on this left most side here next to the toolbox you can go to the "window", actully its in the view menu, and you go to the "other window" you can see, it is here, "documents outlines". so what you can do is make selection inside of this document outlines and it shows you kind of the high arc of the items which we call it a "tree", a visible tree  and so, by selecting each items we get the the little baudry box selection around it. furthermore, its kind of convient when you want make change of the properties window, it is difficult to find exact items you are looking for just by clicking around.the other thing we can do is actully hide items by clicking this left column on the right hand side, to remove certain items from view and then we can also lock items which means it can not be selected and therefore can not be easily changed  in the property window. but you can still make changes here though. if you really want to. I have not really tried that but you can see that Isloacked = ture to the design time experience with a d: prefix here that says this ignoreable at run time but it used by the designer.so that's the utility of the document outline. sometines i utilise this whenever i want to get at or get things isolated from verything else.
	
	ok， so this last exsample i hope illustrate a little help us to have a better understanding of difference of grids and stackpanels. and something you need watch out for and compeletely understand. so roll up this code here is almost identical to the first exsample we used in this lesson. this time we have grid that surrounds 2 stackpanels.this first tope most stackpanel,contains 3 textblocks,first,second and third and another embeded stackpanel, orientations set to horizontal. this one just have three textblocks. that would be a alined stacked horizontally, so we get fourth, fifth and sixth. below that, we have another stackpanel with rectangle in side of it. now in this case you'll look at it and say "why are there so much space in between this rectangle and the bottom of the stackpanle.what's going on here？" and you might think "maybe what i can do is set the vertical alignment = top" and that will help things out. wait I lost my first stackpanel. you did not lose it actully , its sitting behind the second stackpanel, the one with the red rectangle and so there are three things going on here at the same time and this will hopefully help you to understand difference between grids and stackpanels. so some controls like imagine rectangles control that set themselve inside the grid cell, will be set to 100 width and 100 heighth by default. so that is also ture stackpanel. when you put stackpanles inside a grid cell and this case in a defualt grid cell, cell 0 or row 0 or column 0. then the 2 stackpanels are esstentially, well the first stackpanel has set itsself to 100 heights and 100 width now the second stackpanel has set itself to 200 height, but the second thing you need to understand is that by default the content in a cell grid will be vertically or horizontally centered. so , here have the second stackpanel, let's move the vertical alignment, that fall here will be center. so you can see that its actully sitting, the entire stackpanel, in the center of that cell. and then the third thing you need to understand about grid cell is that you can easily over lap items in a grid cell. so, if 2 or more control are set to the exactlly grid cell. and their horizontal alignment = top and vertical alignment = top. they will literlary sit on each other.so that's what we are looking at, here , we are actully looking at 2 stackpanels. this first stackpanel takes the entire lane  and the item inside of it, however are alined to the top of that stackpanel. but the stackpanel itself takes up the whole frame. and in the second stackpanel is set in the middle of the cell , but only 200 tall. however, whenever we change the vertical alignment, and now we move that to the top of that single cell of the grid that's where we overlabed. so, just want you to understand that about grids and about stackpanels. the stackpanels will never ever allow you to put 2 of them on top of each other where you can not see the one that's kind underneath it. whereas grids cells will absolutely allow you to do that.
	
	so there is couple of ways we can rectify that this is easiest one to just use stackpanels. as the out of the most, a container here in this particular layout. however, you can also create 2 lows instead of just one row and put this first stackpanel on the top low and the second stackpanle on th buttom row. and that will ensure they do not overlap.you could also set the  stackpanels, you can set it vertical alignment to the top and use a margin to push it down. that seems more fragile, i do not know if like that idea. there are couple of different ways to still makes this work even though you work with a grid.but ideal you probably just use stackpanel.  the fact like i said, a few moments ago, i typically just use stackpanel, just about for everything. i do not use grids as much as i use to, except to give the page in overall structure.and with everything else, i tried to use stackpanels.and so there is this speical technical however i learned 	when wen talk about adapt to trigger, adapt to flave that utilize grids to daped from a desktop to mobile layout. that would not be possible with stackpanel. so still does have its usage. i just perfer, in most stages, to stick to use stackpanel.
	
	ok, so that's all I have about to say about stackpanel. hopefully that was helpful for you to unerstand it and how is it different from grid. the next thing i thing we need to do is stepback just a monment and just review everything we have been talked about. create a little chi-chi to start that process that will utilize us the rest of series. and i want give you a asignment and force you to write some code and semtaily ideas we have cover up to now inside you mind. and i will give yo the solution. how about that just a video that just 2 form now. so let's start do some review in the very next lesson. see u there!.  